Welcome.
Somebody say something so I can double check that my, uh,
audio setup is actually functional today. No.
Hey, I'm
Here. Thank you.
Okay, perfect. I can hear everybody.
Okay.
We are starting at 7 35 Exactly,
because we got a lot of stuff to get through today.
Oh, I'm not gonna struggle to open this on camera.
That would be embarrassing. Okay. Thank God
my team already played How many senior developers as it take
to screw in a light bulb today?
So I wasn't ready for more embarrassment. Smith.
I was one of the senior developers trying
to screw in the light bulb, just so we're all aware.
Pause the answer. How many?
Three, three and a half.
Two and a half, depending on how you measure it.
Somewhere between two and four.
How do you have half of a developer?
You can find 'em anywhere. They're just waiting to happen.
Sometimes they're on your team
and they're just, you know, you know, they know, you know,
they're, they're develop,
they're developers at the out there waiting to happen.
Any other, any other interesting questions?
Half a developer is a good one.
Sometimes I can show up to work
'cause half a developer, it can happen.
I'd have to show up real disheveled though.
Maybe if you're like late.
I'm like always on time though.
I've never been late to this class. Even
I have like a fantastic track record of showing up
to things like exactly when I need to be there.
All right. Well we are at 7 36, so it is time to start.
Uh oh. We're already recording. Cool. Great. All right.
Today we are welcome everybody.
If you are watching asynchronously, welcome to week five.
Last week we had a guest, very,
uh, smart, very senior engineer come
to teach us about querying.
This week we are going to close the loop on working
with records in Salesforce
or records with Salesforce, your database, um,
by talking about DML
and a little bit more about querying kind of
how the two go together.
'cause they are basically two, uh,
the two critical pieces
of probably the most important thing you can do on
Salesforce, um, which is manipulate the database.
But before that, um, we are supposed
to talk this week some about using LinkedIn as an engineer,
which wow has that changed a lot,
I think in the last probably five or six years.
So I want to to talk a little bit about, um,
my opinion, which again,
everybody's gonna have their own take, uh,
for kinda like what's the utility of LinkedIn,
especially as a job seeker.
That's kind of the angle I take to this.
It's like if you're on LinkedIn, you're there for a reason.
Um, you're not there for to
actually, some people are there just to socialize,
but for the most part, LinkedIn is a tool for, uh,
networking to be quite frank with you.
So I do want to talk a little bit about that, kind of talk
through, um, what I use LinkedIn for when I was starting out
and kind of the way I choose to engage
with people on LinkedIn.
Um, so let's discuss that briefly
and then go to some real, real interesting stuff.
So I have for you right here, my actual LinkedIn today.
Um, LinkedIn, like I said, uh, a lot of people hate it.
Uh, there's a lot of reasons to hate it. I won't lie to you.
Uh, I often do not like LinkedIn.
However, I participate in it
because at the end of the day, it is a net positive for, uh,
me to network with people and me to network myself.
And, uh, it's also a great place to
present yourself in such a way
that the right people will come to you
or you can find the right people to get a job.
So, um, what do I mean by that?
What I mean by that is there's a couple base
things you should probably know about.
LinkedIn. LinkedIn, uh,
you can ba it's basically like you can connect with people,
you make friends, whatever, uh,
but they're not really your friends.
Well, some people are, but not everyone.
The important thing to know is
that when you fill out this profile, this,
it should be like a second resume.
So when I'm talking about a, the importance
of LinkedIn, it's crazy important.
If I'm gonna hire somebody, I look them up on LinkedIn
and if I'm gonna like look something up about somebody,
I'm gonna look at their LinkedIn
because their resume is a PDF document
that gets lost on my computer in a folder somewhere.
I'm not saying that to be like a jerk about it,
but quite frankly, some people are too lazy to,
to actually pick up, uh, and like read through the resume.
Or some people are too lazy to search for you.
You wanna make it really easy for the people
that have the ability, ability to like change your life,
to give you life changing money, to give you a great job,
to find you and to understand who you are.
So this is super important
because it's so easy for me to find anybody
I can find up here
and find exactly who I'm looking for,
probably without much effort at all.
So this is crazy, crazy important.
If you are a job seeker, please spend time on your LinkedIn.
And I'm not saying you have to do it all at once,
it can be like a gradual thing.
I wish I had screenshots
of my LinkedIn when I started out compared to today,
but it's very, very easy, um, to get complacent about it
because LinkedIn, a lot
of people find it very like toxic and very fake.
And uh, like some people don't like social media.
I also don't like social media.
I only have two pieces of social media.
I have LinkedIn and I have Instagram.
And um, you know,
I've seen 'em a lot both change a lot over the last
probably five, six years.
But so what, what do you actually do on here?
So LinkedIn is your place to kind of, um, put a good picture
of yourself up, tell people what you're about very quickly.
And then if for someone
who is interested in learning more about you,
they will go through and read this stuff.
The person, a person browsing, like, uh,
your resume may only spend anywhere from five
to 10 seconds actually reading the resume.
But I find that people do spend more time.
I find that me as a person who, um, has hired people,
will spend more time looking at their
LinkedIn than their resume.
'cause LinkedIn lets you see like, oh, what kind
of comments is this person posting?
What kind of, um, things are they resharing?
What kinds of posts are they making?
Like what is this person talking about?
Because that can tell you a lot about them.
Like, if I were to look at me from an outside perspective,
I'd be like, oh, he's gone to TDX.
He must be, he must think he's a big deal,
or maybe he actually is a big deal, you know,
or maybe his work's making him go.
Who knows? Um, oh, okay, he's
reposting this guy's post.
What's that about? Oh, certifications.
He is thinking about certifications.
You can kind of get a good picture.
Oh, he's reposting this guy's, uh, commerce Cloud job.
Maybe he knows about Commerce Cloud.
Um, you know, you can, you can see kind of like
what someone is about a lot easier.
And so I, I'm not saying this works for every hiring person,
but just doing a little bit
of participation at LinkedIn can actually pay off a lot.
Um, when we're looking at your job history, right?
I used to be ashamed of my job history, um, until,
you know, I, I hated the fact that I, I used
to call them dirty jobs
and I I, I really used to internalize them this way.
Like, if you go way, way, way back, I was very upset to have
Starbucks on my resume.
I was very upset to have Cheesecake Factory.
I was very upset to have a
Mexican restaurant in my hometown.
But the, the thing with these jobs that were like very,
you know, it's hard to pull something good outta them is
that they actually, the people I've hired
that have worked these types of jobs
and the people I work with that have worked these types
of jobs, absolutely so much better to work
with than the people that haven't worked them.
I would, that's my personal opinion.
So this was all leading me to say this, like
however you want to present yourself.
Uh, I think authenticity
and honesty is a great way to lead, especially in 2025
because you know,
if I'm looking at my weird job history here that I have,
I have a lot to talk about and I have a lot of things
that can connect to a lot of different people
with a lot of different experiences.
If you work the same job like, uh, for 10 years
and then you are now doing this,
all the different experiences you had at your job,
you probably just need to sit down and unpack them
and find a way to express them on here.
Because I'm sure you've seen a lot of interesting things.
Even if it was a very simple like, you know,
straightforward job, like Starbucks is not a complicated
job, but you've seen a lot of interesting stuff
and it gives you something to connect
with people about just putting it on there.
Um, this is me saying please spend time on your LinkedIn.
'cause people do look at it. People do care.
If you're gonna go look for your first, um, engineering job,
your first developer job,
or a hybrid Salesforce job where you're doing a little bit
of admin, a little bit of consulting, a little bit
of development, do put your experiences on there
because those can help you also connect
with like lots of different industries.
Like when I worked, uh, in consulting, being aware of,
um, a lot of the things that I ran into working
as a bank teller was actually super
helpful at my current job.
I cannot explain to you how crazy useful it is
to have just worked as a teller for like a month.
E even a month would've given me.
And I worked there for almost three years.
So don't be afraid of your past, you know,
like really put it out there.
Last thing on your LinkedIn
to pay attention to as an engineer.
These, these are gold.
There's a lot of drama over the last,
I would say month about certifications,
especially the AI ones maybe even six months ago too.
But here's, these are the gold
standards certifications right here.
Platform developer one and a certified administrator.
If you got these recruiters are going
to take you more seriously.
Whether or not you actually know what you're talking about,
just having these is a huge deal.
So if you have them,
put them on your LinkedIn, by all means do it.
We will do another quick LinkedIn overview about like how
to use this to apply for jobs
and how to kind of network on here.
But the first step to networking on LinkedIn is
to define yourself as best as you can
and as honestly as you can.
Um, that's my LinkedIn spiel.
Does anybody have any questions about LinkedIn?
That's step one. And obviously this is just my opinion.
There are gonna be all sorts of gurus out there
that probably know better than me or different than me.
But from day one, what has worked is
advertise myself honestly, interact with people genuinely.
Um, you know,
AI posting is probably not gonna get you very far,
but using it, reading it, interacting on it
helps people find you easier.
Questions, comments before we move on to code?
Oh, I gotta check the chat.
LinkedIn is how I found Warren and Cloud Code Academy.
See, we're out here, uh, on LinkedIn
and it helps us, uh, get people into the program.
So
I just wanna say thank you for that
because like, I also struggle with having those
dirty jobs on my resume.
Yeah, like you said, if you don't have 'em,
you don't really get the same quality people.
I, I mean that's my opinion.
Um, I, I used to really hate putting them on my resume,
but I I, on the flip side of my resume, I still have like,
you know, my Starbucks job.
I still have my, my front page
of my resume is development experience.
Um, but, but it is not like Mike Row dirty jobs either.
I just think of it like that. 'cause when you leave the
Cheesecake Factory after a 12 hour
shift, you're just kind of dirty.
Like, like you just got like, like, you know,
like fry grease or whatever on you.
So, and, and
Been there, done that. Yeah.
Yeah. I mean, I, I don't know.
I used to think of it like that 'cause I really wanted,
I was really tired of working those jobs,
but, um, I I, I'm very happy that I did.
And you know what, like some of my best friends, uh,
still work those kind of jobs
and I, I don't think of them like that.
It just felt that way in my heart
because of, like when I, when I was trying to just get jobs
before I had programming skills,
it felt like I would get rejected
because I had no like,
corporate experience or anything, you know?
So I wouldn't be afraid to put it out there, especially
for a Salesforce ecosystem.
Uh, even though the job market is like, you know, not
what it used to be for Salesforce far
and away, they're very open to, uh,
non-standard backgrounds, I would say.
Or, you know, not straight outta college
into the whatever backgrounds.
I mean, there's a lot of, you know, like,
nonsense on here like this, but you just don't,
you know, you don't gotta read it.
You know, you can just be like, I don't care about that.
So There is good stuff on here, it's just what you curate.
And I have a lot of garbage on my screen today,
so I'm not really sure what that's about.
Anyway, that's all about LinkedIn.
That's my actual LinkedIn.
I'll, I'll do another walkthrough, uh, of LinkedIn.
I think it's next week, um, where we'll talk about, um,
uh, like how to actually like, apply for jobs.
Like what is, how would I apply to a job today?
Um, and how did I used to apply to jobs?
Jobs when I, especially when I was looking
for like my second job or my third job.
So we'll get into that at that point.
But LinkedIn, you might hate it,
but it is a very, very useful tool.
Your resume is still super important,
but LinkedIn is probably the second.
Alright, let's talk about something more fun, which is,
uh, computer programming.
So we learned last week about this.
We know how to query records, uh,
from our database.
So I can do this
and I can get records outta my database, right?
We all know how this works at this point,
hopefully from last week.
And we also know that we can, from our homework, do this.
We can say, I would like
to create a new record.
Um, let's see.
Oh, well we saw,
I'm just taking the first person I see off
the list of students.
So,
All right, so we know that we can do this.
We know that we can create a record.
We can, again, if we break this down just
with our programming fundamental knowledge data type,
what's the variable gonna be called
for us human beings who are reading the code?
Uh, assignment operator. I wanna make a new instance of it.
Constructor records have constructors
and records have a special constructor format, which, uh,
we should probably be aware of
where we can either use the default constructor,
which looks like this and that'll create it.
And then we can say, you know,
assign some property of it.
We can do it like this
where I can assign implicitly the property,
or sorry, assign explicitly the property of my meal,
which is a record that I'm gonna insert into my database
or records.
Have a special constructor. It's very, very special.
You can't make constructors like this in Apex except
unless they're, or unless they're records.
So with that, I can name the property in my constructor
and assign it a value.
So I can either put properties of my,
my, or really fields, I guess you could call them.
'cause they are fields. Now I could put fields of my,
in my constructor and assign them,
and I can do that for any field.
So I could do more, I could put a comma
and then I could assign some other attribute of it.
Uh, I don't know if I actually
have anything else to find on this.
I,
mark says, if you leave the record constructor blank
and do not define the name below it.
Would the default name of the field of the object kick in
and assign a record name automatically,
like if it's an auto number, et cetera.
It depends on how you, yes,
but yes, if it's an auto number,
it's gonna assign the auto number.
Um, you actually can't control
the name if it's an auto number.
Uh, but if you don't name it anything,
I'm pretty sure it ends up as the record id.
I'm gonna make another custom field on this here.
So I made some objects for today just for, for the,
a few minutes before class for, for laughs um,
made burger side and meal just
because, uh, we've been really enjoying grilling lately.
So I'm gonna make a new field on this.
We'll just do, just do a number here.
Just call it a number. I'm gonna actually
call the field, uh, combo.
We'll allow, allow it to be two digits long.
'cause that would be way more crazy
if there was a three digit combo.
Actually, we'll do a three digit combo. 'cause that's funny.
No decimal places.
Then always require a value.
And then we're gonna leave it like this for now.
And because the value is required, it's automatically, uh,
visible to everybody
and we'll do safe.
Okay? Oh, we got somebody in the waiting room.
Sorry about that. All right, so
now I could also assign this,
or wait, I called it combo, right?
And I would give this a number value, like one,
so you can do your constructor like this.
I can go down here and do it like this.
We all know all this stuff,
okay?
What we want to talk about today is, uh,
how do we combine queries
and how do we combine, uh, DML operations
in order to actually, um,
work, like do the full life cycle of working with records
and Salesforce, because this,
this fundamental like query records, create records,
update records, relate records, is basically
what this whole thing is all about.
And since we know, uh, at a fundamental level
that records are just objects,
we should not be afraid of working with them.
We should not be afraid
of putting them into different collections,
putting them into maps
and understanding that the fields of our records are just
variables or member variables of an object.
Oh, did I,
okay.
Am I crazy?
Am I like
crazy guys?
You have an extra quotation at the end of the,
Yeah, there it is.
And you gotta go back. Oh, oh my gosh. Wow. Whew.
I told you today it took, uh,
three senior developers to screw a light bulb.
So that's really gonna set the tone for today.
So, we'll, we'll test everyone's,
we're just testing your guys debugging skills.
Alright, um, so I just inserted a record right here
as we've done on, uh, homework for,
I have a custom record called Meal.
Meal has a name and it has a combo on it.
Uh, that's all it has right now.
So I just inserted it and then I can query it down here.
So when we're querying something, uh,
currently I'm just selecting every single meal in the
system that's ever been ordered.
So I'm getting, uh,
Haley's meal right now, probably in my list.
And if I were to take a look at my list,
we're gonna write a for loop with our list of meal.
I'm just call it m for meals, m in meal.
ISVS code misbehaving so bad today. All right?
I'll just, uh, just print
out what the meal looks like
and I'm gonna do my little trick that I like to do so
that I can read it very easily in my debug log.
I have a question. I know that like it's a list,
but how do you know that it's a list?
So Find It. That's
a great question.
You talking about this right here?
How do I know this is a list?
Yeah, because above it we didn't,
It's only one record, right?
Yeah. Mm-hmm. So how do I know?
Well, the truth is, I don't know.
So what, what happens here?
And uh, I'll go back over this again.
What happens here is I don't know.
So if I look at my debug output right here, I can see
that now I have two meals, right?
But I don't know how many I'm gonna get back from this
and you, that's correct.
However, when we run a query,
the query always returns a list of records
of a specific type.
It always does no matter what.
There are times where you will see this code
meal, specific meal, and you'll have it looking like this.
Select ID from meal
limit one or something like this.
This means that my query is only allowed to retrieve a list
of records that is one long.
So Salesforce has a,
or Apex, really Apex has a shortcut built into it.
That shortcut is if there is a list of records
and it is of size exactly one, not zero
and not more than one, you are allowed to store it
to a single variable.
That is how I know in this case,
that I'm going to get one back.
I can do this because I know I will get one back.
However, if I get zero back, this code actually fails.
I have another record in my system that's called Side
that comes with my meal
and I haven't created any of those yet.
So if I query up like this, if I query my side,
I'm gonna get an exception.
Watch this illegal assignment from list
of side to single meal.
Oh wait, sorry, that wasn't the exception I wanted.
There we go. That's the exception I wanted.
List has no rows for assignment to s object.
This always returns a list.
You always need to be thinking in your mind
like, I'm gonna get a list back.
I don't know how many I'm gonna get back.
Because even if I say limit one,
if there's none in the system, I'm gonna get none.
And zero records.
A list of size zero cannot assign into this.
This is a shortcut that they give you,
but it's a very dangerous shortcut.
I do not, I would not encourage you to use this
unless you are very sure that you're going
to get a specific record back.
Gotcha. Uh, blanche says,
so you should do a null check.
If you're not sure. Noel is actually not going
to help me here because check this out.
You, like I said, you always get a list back.
You always get a list of records back.
I don't have any sides in my system yet.
I promise you I have not inserted any.
So if I run this query, even with a limit one watch,
let's look at the value of what my specific
or my, uh, all sides,
my all sides variable ends up being just,
let's take a look at it real quick.
Uh, wow.
Is my keyboard in a different language mode right now?
It is. That is why everything is behaving so odd.
My bad guys, I just fixed that off screen.
So we should be back to normal Now.
I was like, man, this feels really weird today.
Uh, so I'm gonna debug out my list, which is gonna spit out
every side of my system that I can find up to one.
Actually, we'll do 'em all. Let's
take a look at what the debug output is for this.
So I'm looking for a debug output online
13 on line 13.
This is my list. This is not null.
Okay? Now, uh, I was asking, so if you don't know,
you would not do a null check on a query,
you would always just let it come back with nothing.
I would've. So in my world, right?
Like we, we know to always leave lists constructed.
We always, we are not going to initialize this list to null,
assign a query into it
and then, um, do something like that there.
But even in that, in that case, like almost no code
that does this is actually gonna leave it null.
You'll see tons of Salesforce code that says if all sides,
uh, equals, equals null, well actually, what, this is
what the actual code would look like.
It would look like this. And then there would be some
important code inside here.
Yeah, yeah,
That's what I was asking. Should
you do that when you don't know? How
About if, um, all side is not empty
That you should do?
Yes, there you go.
That's, that's what I'm getting at is a lot
of times you'll see code that looks like this
and this is not gonna help you
because it's never gonna be null.
And sometimes you'll see this or, or sorry,
and all sides that is empty.
Uh, well, you do a knot here is not empty.
This is, this is also kind of an empty pattern
because we're putting very important code in here when
really what we'd wanna do is this.
If all sides that is empty, quit and go home,
and then you put your very important code afterward.
You guys are really smart. So I know
that we can tackle these kind of like things here,
but like this, you write your code like this, oh my gosh,
people are gonna be like, wow, alright then,
Okay, so you should do it on all signs.
You should do an is empty check
first when you're doing a sequel. Yes. So
Yes, Noel is a complete waste of time to do though,
'cause this is always gonna return you an empty list, right?
I promise you at Matt worst, or you'll throw an exception.
But, uh, it shouldn't throw an exception
unless you've, uh, like done something a little crazy.
But this is, this is the most, this is
what we should be really doing here.
Okay? So we know how
to query stuff in, we know how to insert stuff.
Let's start doing some, uh,
more interesting problems with this.
So we know that this is always gonna return a list.
We know that if we want to just get the first record
or one record and we're sure that we're gonna get it back,
we can just do that single assignment.
But yes, Bayo is correct.
We can just check if it's empty, quit and go home.
Uh, real winners quit. Okay?
Uh, I missed M's question, can you create the actual object
or the field from within Apex?
I have seen creating records, but not the
object itself or the field.
You, you sh uh, long answer
or sh long story short for that,
you cannot insert a new field
or a new S object definition with
the, like the default insert
upsert delete DML operations.
You can use something called the metadata.
API, which is an API arrest, API
that you can call in Salesforce to manipulate that.
That is basically deploying data into your
Salesforce org at that point.
Um, but that is all possible with the metadata. API.
Um, that is how you would do that programmatically.
And you can write things called there.
I would say, to put it really simply,
I would look into writing a bash script.
There are many scripting languages that you can use to do,
you know, call outs to systems.
You can do it in Apex if you want,
but you're basically calling out to a service
that your org always has up, just
'cause Salesforce has this available that will allow you
to modify the metadata in your org.
That metadata includes objects.
Oh, let me pull down our, my custom objects later.
So yes, caram, you can do that.
Um, you have to use the metadata.
API we do not cover using that in the course,
but it is important to eventually understand.
So let's, let's work on some interesting,
uh, problems here with this.
So I, I'm gonna tell you all, I have this schema
that I've loosely introduced to you, which is I have meals
and I have sides,
and I also have a third thing which we will define here.
I'm gonna wipe all this out
so we are all on the same page with this knowledge right here.
So I have a couple things. I have, uh,
let's, let's make a class.
Actually we don't need to do all this in Apex Anonymous.
Uh, let's call it, let's call it Meal Factory.
Sounds very, doesn't sound very good.
I wish I could have called this
class grill, but it's too late.
Alright, I'm gonna leave this as with sharing,
since I'm running this as a system admin right now,
and I know I have access to everything,
I'm gonna make a method, public static void.
I'm going to call it a cook meal.
I'm gonna say string, um,
recipient, okay?
I'm also going to make a method.
Actually, we're not make a method yet. So what am I gonna do
as part of cooking my meal?
Well, I need to, uh, create the meal.
I need to, uh, get the sides.
I need to get the burger. Okay?
So I gotta do these things.
I gotta, so I gotta create these, create these two,
and then I need to, uh,
let's say put the meal in the window.
I need to basically say order up or up, you know, so,
and then once someone has picked up my order, I want to mark
that ticket for the meal to be is like done
or delivered or completed.
So then I would say, uh, once picked up,
uh, we would say expo, I guess you would say,
but I'm trying to keep it real simple.
Uh, once it's been picked up, you will, uh, mark
meal as done.
Okay? So I've got these tasks here
and let's write some code to do all these things.
I, as you'll find out, I have a, a meal,
I have sides, I have burger.
And then I, uh, have
some, uh, did I do those?
I did not define the fields yet.
So we'll do that real quick. But this is
what we're gonna do today to kind of explore
what is the connection between doing a query
and, uh, doing DML and some complexities with that.
And my ultimate task over here is going to be, uh,
cook 10 meals for 10 people.
Alright? Everybody on board with this.
We're gonna go through this real quick.
Alright, cool. Uh,
right, let's start with this.
Create the meal. So I would definitely want
to instantiate it.
We know how to, to do this. Uh,
I'm gonna call this m for now.
I know that if this was a real code base,
probably we would call it something more,
but
make a new one.
Now, if,
let's just say my logic is pretty simple for now, right?
I have a name and that's gonna be,
we're gonna put that for the recipient.
So we're gonna say recipient plus, we'll give it the, uh,
possessive and then we'll
say make it their meal.
We'll make it their order.
Okay, then let's do, oh, invalid type.
That wasn't invalid a second ago.
Yes, Riley's right. I am being really lazy.
I will fix it while I'll fix it while we do this.
So if you make a new custom S object
and it's not showing up in your VS code
or a new custom field,
you can do refresh s object definitions.
And this should fix it.
Sometimes it doesn't behave very
well. We'll say it's getting
A little bit into the weeds,
but if you build your project from a manifest
and it doesn't have it in there, then it will continue
to forget about it.
Oh, my manifest is probably empty.
Can you guys tell I'm used?
I'm a, I'm not a consultant warrior developer anymore.
I'm just a stay. I'm a one company developer.
Now, not resilient
Since you're here, I know this is a, a tangent,
but explain what this is.
Yes. So in every project, uh,
and every Salesforce project,
there is a thing called package XML package.
XML defines what types
of S object
or what types of metadata you have inside
of your Salesforce, uh, project.
And my Salesforce project so far,
all we have is APEX classes.
They're in a folder called classes
that is represented in this package, XML under the data,
under the metadata type apex class.
This star means that I am in this project paying attention
to every single Apex class.
The star is a shortcut that says, um, basically
I want to select all.
So, uh,
I'm selecting all my Apex classes for this package.
I have just done that now for custom objects
because this should
cause my custom object to be recognized.
I wish I had remembered to set this up
before, but I did not.
Okay,
we'll see if this works.
If not, I will, we will be learning how
to pull down metadata.
You didn't save your package file, does that matter?
It probably does.
You know what?
Maybe I'll just tell it it exists.
I do not, uh, work with vs. Code on the regular.
I usually use IntelliJ
and I have been working on the same project now for
about two and a half years, no two years.
So I am not used to debugging some
of these annoying error messages.
But, uh, these are things that you may encounter.
So I'll, I will work on them briefly
to see if we can get this to behave itself.
I,
uh, this is my other custom object.
Okay. And then the last thing we'll do is,
uh, this is probably something you'll need to know
for if you do the capstone project.
Uh, there's this thing, you can do this
with the command line, uh,
or you can do this with this thing called org browser
or browser is a way to look at the metadata
that is in your remotely connected org.
When I, when you use the org browser,
you can see all the different types of metadata
that are potentially in your Salesforce organization.
For a lot of organizations,
you will not have things like channel layouts
or uh, custom feed filters.
You may not have these things.
One thing that all almost all orgs will have though is
custom objects or these are gonna have custom
fields, all types of stuff.
And what we can do is we can refresh meaning query the org
to, for this metadata using the metadata.
API, this is a button sort of like user interface
that calls the metadata API.
And we can go and see what's on my org.
You can see that I have this custom object here, burger.
I'm gonna click this and that'll retrieve the source.
So I've just downloaded this definition
of this custom object for myself.
I can do the same thing with my other custom object.
We usually don't cover this in the course,
but uh, anyway, meal,
meal starts with the letter M, which is right here.
I'm gonna download this one.
And then the last one was side, which starts letter S.
It's alphabetized.
So when I do this, it calls the metadata API
and tells Salesforce, Hey, you know
that custom object you have in your user
interface over here?
Well I would like to get the code for that.
And it gives you the code for that
because now I have burger with its fields
and I have meal with its fields
and I have oh my side with its fields
and these all exist.
This is called uh, a concept called configuration is code.
And this is not unique to Salesforce.
There are, uh, all software has this kind of property
of there has to be some way to represent for the computer
what it is you have, uh, created
and for custom objects, this is it.
Now this still has given me problems.
I'm really not sure what it wants at this point.
Well,
I actually do not understand why I have, uh,
really made it upset in this way.
So what we will do is probably just ignore it.
Alright, back to the matter at hand.
It is still gonna do this to me, isn't it?
One moment, let me restart vs code.
See all you guys that are like, oh, I can't get my vs code
to behave like I want it to.
Actually a very normal problem, which is why
after enough years you stop using VS code.
Um, unless I am
able to have just solved my problem.
Can we see vs code?
Yeah, yeah, Perfect. We took the
Problem, We did it.
Nevermind vs. Code rules.
All right, so all we had to do is know all
that information just to get our thing to work right,
which is really wonderful.
Anyway, I have a custom object. It's called meal.
I'm gonna call it order up.
Uh, we're gonna take the input recipient's name
and attach it to the name of the order.
And uh, actually they need to know
what combo they're ordering too.
So I'll take in an info, I'll take in an integer, uh,
combo number and I'll sign that to my
order up, uh, combo.
It's gonna be equal to the combo number. Excellent.
Alright, so I've made my meal.
I don't think I need to insert it into the database
yet though, so I'm not going
to insert it into the database yet.
So now we go into make some sides. No problem.
Uh, we'll just use the side. Oh, don't do this to me.
No, no, no, no, no. Oh, okay. It works.
I was gonna say, I just thought I resolved it.
Okay, so I make a side.
Now the side doesn't really have a lot
of properties to it right now.
I wanted to keep it simple. It just has a name too.
We're just gonna call it the current recipient's, uh, side.
So we'll name it recipient
and then we're gonna add the apostrophe s
and then we're gonna do side,
oh, we'll just do the all in one string
and we're gonna go back and improve this code.
If you're sitting here being like, wow,
chase should really like do better, uh,
and improve this code, yes, we will be doing that as soon
as we get to the, uh, the complexities.
But this, when you're starting out with a problem, you know,
keeping your code compiling and going through
and tackling each of the, the elements
of your problem is a great place to start.
Uh, so my side needs to actually go with my meal
and I have that represented with a relationship.
Uh, I've made a lookup relationship on my side called Meal
that is going to relate my side up to a parent meal.
How, how can I connect?
The two things though is becomes the real question.
Do we know, does anybody know the answer to this?
A lookup? Definitely,
definitely there is a lookup element happening right here,
but you use notation.
I I am using dot notation right here
to say I wanna assign my field the
Id. Can you not
yet because we haven't inserted anything.
Yeah, that's right. I I can't do it yet
because someone said by ID and then someone said, mark
or Blanche, you said I need an ID
and Mark you said you can't do
that 'cause you haven't inserted it.
So now I need to, need to have the meal ID here.
Okay, can I have my meal ID right now?
No. Why not? Because
You haven't inserted or saved it to the database yet.
That's right. Yeah. I actually, uh,
don't have this in my database yet.
Right now this is just in my code, in the memory of my code.
I actually don't know what id,
Salesforce is gonna give this record.
So I don't have any way to connect the two things
because when you make a lookup relationship in the UI over
here, uh, let's go to my side.
When I've defined this lookup relationship
to meal right here, this is created using a
Salesforce ID by default.
There are other ways to relate things,
but to keep it simple, this is the way that we are go,
we are by default connecting things in Salesforce.
So I need the id.
So now I gotta insert my, my order
and that can be done as easily as this right here
because once I have inserted this
with this statement right here, it gains an id.
So my order right here, my meal order up is going
to have an ID
after I successfully call, insert
the order up ID field exists.
Now, this actually has a value.
We'll, we'll print that value out just to prove that
to ourselves as we're working on this method.
Uh, we're actually gonna print it out pretty
because I am, I'm blind.
Okay? And actually we're gonna show before and after.
So we're not gonna do this just yet.
Let's just run our code up to this point
because when I'm programming, I try
to keep my code in a positive state.
I try to keep it compiling.
I try to keep my, uh,
my compiler happy so that it doesn't have red lines.
So I was able to save and deploy this even though I'm in
progress 'cause of the way I'm writing my code.
So let's, we can't do this yet,
but let's just try running one part
of the method right here, which has gone to be, let's see
what happens before and after I insert this,
I'm gonna give, use my own name
'cause I'm a little, I might be a little hungry right now.
I'm just gonna do that just like this.
So this is gonna call again the Meal Factory
class, calling this method.
It's a static method so I don't have
to create an instance of it.
It's going to take my name in
and the combo number that I specified
and cook this, cook this meal or get it started.
Anyway, let's see where we're at.
All right, so we're reading through here. Very cool.
All right, so this is our first debug statement creates, uh,
an object of s object of type meal.
Its name is Chase's order.
The combo is number one and it has no id, there's no ID yet,
but just like magic it appears
after I have inserted it.
Salesforce says I took care of that for you.
You don't need to worry about going and querying the record.
Again, another anti-pattern you will see in a lot
of code is people will insert a record
and then immediately re-query it.
That is not necessary if you only need the id.
However, if we had some other automations here,
like a trigger or a record triggered flow running,
I would have to re-query the record.
'cause my code doesn't know about that.
My code just knows the name
and the, the combo number I've assigned it
and it will get the ID back when it's done.
It doesn't know about anything else that happened outside
of its purview, outside of its world.
It doesn't know in your system's memory.
It only has the name, the combo
and then it gains the ID after the insert.
Doesn't know anything else in the memory
because if it did, that would be breaking kind the way
that programming languages work.
It would have to allocate memory,
assign all these fields for you.
It would be a bit more complicated.
So we don't actually need to requery here yet.
So we actually got our ID now. So that's really good.
'cause now I can make my side
and how to relate records as I'm creating them is I'm going
to just do order up id because I have this id.
Now I can create the lookup relationship.
Now I can insert my side
and I could do the same thing for the burger as well.
That's really easy. This is boilerplate code at this point.
Burger V, uh,
slider equals new burger.
And now you can do your code either way.
Um, if you choose to do it like this, make sure
that you are indenting.
See I have this indent here so you can tell that we're
inside the constructor
because a lot
of times you're gonna assign a whole bunch of fields.
So you'll see people write it like this
and you'll see some people that
prefer to write it it like this.
I honestly don't necessarily have an opinion.
I think that this can be harder
to modify and harder to read.
So I generally will be writing code like this just
'cause it's, it's more like straightforward I guess.
Um, and it doesn't really hurt the readability at all
because I'm just gonna be doing this anyway.
I think it's not necessarily that much harder to read.
Uh, the, but you will note that a lot
of programming languages will be using uh,
uh, syntax like this to create objects,
especially Java go
um, dot net.
A lot of programming languages have stuff
that looks like this when they create objects.
This also has a lookup.
I'm just gonna do the same thing again.
I'm gonna use the, the meals ID
and this is all we have to do in this case.
And then we can just call insert.
So my variables are
specifying the intent of my code,
not the data types or anything like that.
Sometimes it's so simple though.
You might want to name it like this.
Sometimes you wanna express the intent, uh, which is, that
would be slider to attach for slider for a meal.
You know, you could get as cute with it as you want to get.
Uh, now again, another thing we should note is just like
with queries we can run queries with uh, the database class
or we can do database query and say select whatever.
We can also do database insert.
And when we do database insert,
we can still put in an S object like this.
Both of these syntaxes do the same thing. Roughly speaking.
Uh, I generally prefer this syntax database do insert.
The reason for that is if you're working with, uh,
cross-functional teams, this looks very weird
to people that have no other programming languages.
When I first encountered this, I was very confused.
I was like, is there a variable
of type insert called side?
There is not. Um,
this is just a special apex only thing
where they've defined that.
If you say the word insert,
it is gonna do database insert on that next object.
So, um, this looks weird to me. Even to this day.
I don't love it. Um, if I could, I would always do this.
And there's more reasons for
that than I'll explain, uh, soon.
Stacy, is that the same for update
and the other DML operations database update?
Cool. Has 'em all. You can do 'em all.
Uh, the database class is one piece of documentation.
If you're genuinely curious, I'd recommend reading
'cause there's some very powerful
things you can do with this.
Uh, however, for our purposes,
this is usually gonna be enough.
Let me grab the, uh, questions from chat.
Glad you don't have to explicitly query
to get the ID back me too.
Be a waste of a query. 'cause it it
does know the ID at the time.
You insert it if cooked meal is the method. That's right.
What is order up? Uh, order up is the meal.
I I could call it meal. I suppose
I, I, um, I don't know.
The variable names are so straightforward here
because our data model is very simple.
Thanks. Yeah, it's, I didn't, like I said
Off one and I was trying to figure it out and so,
Oh no, you're good. I don't,
I'm not trying to be confusing, um, at all.
I apologize. So we can do either one here
and we're getting everything done with our,
with our task here.
However, now we get to this part,
put the meal in the window, meaning like complete it, uh,
as if, as if the order were done.
So at this point, do we need to re-update our meal
just because we've attached these two relationships?
Do we need to do that or no?
No. Why don't I need to do that?
So if I understand it right, uh, you're
looking at like sort of the parent object of the lookups
And yeah, so this would be our parent
because right, this is at the top level
and then this looks up to the meal
and then this burger looks up to the meal.
So the question is, do you have to do
what now? Requery, do
I, do I need to update my meal again?
No. Why not?
Well, 'cause the meal ID exists and it's, it's just there.
So, uh, the, the, the meal record, I guess,
Yeah. Did I change
This record and it's got an ID
and then you're just referencing that ID from the others?
Yeah. So when I do these two things down here,
you might think, oh, I'm changing what I have done.
You are not changing anything.
These are able to be inserted
or updated without affecting this at all
in our current world, nothing I do, I could,
I could make a second side if I felt like it.
Other side
just copy this over.
Oh, well and
I could also relate this
and it, it just does not have any, uh,
effect on the meal itself.
Really. I can do this
as many times as I want,
but it never is going to affect this
because in essence, we are, we are modifying this record.
This just happens to have a piece of data
that belongs to this meal.
And because Salesforce is a database that is designed
to be very convenient and very fast, when I
have this id, which is known as a key
in another record that does not pertain to it,
it becomes related.
This is called in other databases we would call this a
foreign key because this key
to the meal is foreign to the side.
However, the key on meal, which is its ID,
is a primary key, which means it is unique
and it only belongs to the meal.
These are just referencing it like Mike said.
So this does not, so they're related records.
They're related records
and we have related them using the IDs.
Yeah.
Okay, so we've done all this stuff now, now we need
to mark it as like a completed or whatever.
So I don't have a field for that,
but we can make one real quick.
Can just real quick make one
in my uh, developer org.
Here I'll make a new one.
I am just gonna keep it really simple.
In the real world, I would probably make this a
status pick list.
But uh, in our world, I'm just gonna use a checkbox
to say that it's done
default, not done.
I could also do this and uh, I would probably do this
if I had to make a lot of fields using the metadata itself.
So now I have this field that's available to me.
If I were to update, but I can set the true
or false, it's probably gonna tell me it doesn't exist
though because I need to refresh it.
So check boxes get represented as Boolean,
it's gonna tell me it doesn't exist.
Let's do that quick resolution for that refresh.
S object definitions.
While it's doing that though, um,
now I actually have to update this.
I can do it with just an update statement right here.
Um, does this change anything about
the record for me locally?
Locally? Meaning in my code, in my code's memory right now?
Does this change anything?
No, the ID remains the same.
Yeah, ID is the same.
Uh, the record is exactly as I described it above here
where it has this name, has this combo number
and uh, it's gonna have this set to true now.
So the important thing to note is this.
If I insert a record
and some stuff gets changed on it
in like a record triggered flow or a trigger
or something else
that's running automatically like a even a workflow rule,
dare I say my code does not know
about that process.
It knows about exactly the specific definition of this
and all the pieces of it as it exists right now on my code.
So if I insert it
and something changes that I the code doesn't know about,
and then I use that same record, that same variable
to then update it, I might
overwrite anything that it changes.
This is very, very, very important.
'cause a lot of times if you're not designing your code
carefully, you can end up, uh,
erasing what an automation has done.
So like if I had an automation that would verify
that the order was truly up, like
as in my automation would set this to false anytime
that it detected
that there were no children's sides or children burger.
I might, every time I put in that it's true,
it might change it to false and I could overwrite that value
and then the trigger would do it again.
It would run that trigger again
and change things on the record.
Be very mindful of the difference between
what is in your code and what is in the database as well.
'cause here's another thing I wanna point out.
Let's say, uh, I've cooked this meal
and this, this works just fine.
We're gonna ignore that order up, not
that error message right there.
Let's say I have another method.
I I've served this uh, plate to the customer.
The customer says, you know what? This is cooked wrong.
I need you to refire it.
Let's make a method to represent this, uh, fun scenario
where someone says, I don't like it, refire it.
Um, if I were to refire it, I would want
to know whose order this was.
And I would also want to know,
you know, what's wrong with it, right?
But for our simple scenario, we'll just say refire order
or refi me refire meal.
So I could, I could do this a couple ways depending on
what information I have, right?
I might have the exact specific plate that is wrong,
the exact specific meal that is wrong.
I could represent that with an id.
I might also only know their name.
If I only know their name, I'm gonna have to query
for it, right?
However, if I'm going to, uh,
change something about this meal
and I only have the id, do I need to query it?
Yes or no? Let's say I wanna change something about this
meal I've defined up here later on in the, like,
in a completely separate time.
All I have is the id. Do I need to reque?
Are you gonna query it in here, right? Yeah, you do.
It's not been written yet.
Depends on the order of your execution, doesn't it?
All right, so let's explore this
because I think this is a, uh, uh,
this is an important point.
I'm gonna query it up right here.
I know specifically which meal it should be,
unless it gets deleted by the time
that this method gets called,
it's probably gonna still exist.
So I can do a list of meals
and I can do select I id from meal,
uh, where the ID is equal to, uh,
a specific meal id, I'm gonna use the bind operator here
and bind the meal ID into my query that I'm running.
This is going to get me every single meal in my database
that has this specific id.
And as we know, this is a primary key.
This is a very specific key,
meaning there's only one record with this key ever.
That is just a guarantee
that you have when you use a Salesforce.
Id like this. So in theory, I don't need
to query a whole list.
I could just do this because I'm pretty confident
that it is the, it is a meal for rehiring.
All right, so what do I want to change about this?
Well, first of all, the meal for rehiring, I should
set it to order up false.
And I also am going to, uh, change the combo number
because maybe it was the wrong combo.
Uh, meal for a firing dot combo equals,
uh, is a number two.
Instead, maybe we could even call this
fixed combo or something.
Either way, uh, I I have now fixed the order, right?
And I can resubmit it,
going to resubmit my food to say that I have fixed it.
Now it's the right combo.
However, did I need to query
order up in combo in order to change them?
Yes or no?
If you wanted to change that record, yes. Okay.
I think you could.
I I'm not sure if, um, when you committed it initially
if the result would come as a map.
But I think we could set in the, like the block of, um,
code that comes in after you post, insert it,
and be able to pick that very particular element that, um,
meal element maybe within the list if we know the list index
or so, or if we can query the, the list
and be able to pick it, process it,
and just bunch of talk into, um, what we need
to commit later on.
Because I think the question you're asking is how
to minimize the DML operations.
So, uh, a actually that would be true if we want
to minimize DML operations.
Yes, we could definitely do every step that you specify.
I want to be clear about that.
And generally minimizing DML operations is a good pursuit.
Uh, 'cause they are very time costly
in terms of compute time.
However, uh, we're just, uh, we're kind
of like using our imagination here to imagine that
at some point in the future we run this method.
Like, uh, we don't know when,
but we would run this method here
and then we would run sometime later
and we just have this id.
So, uh, yes, you are correct.
We could do various strategies like you mentioned, to
not need to repro, uh, to requery
or do multiple DML,
but we're just like kind of making a separation.
'cause I wanna show this second point here, which is,
what do we actually need to query?
Well does meal for rehiring it? Um, excuse me.
Yeah, you need, you need to have some reference
that to be able to do it.
And it's a scoping thing, right?
Yep. I, I will need some way to find it.
I could use the name of the person to try and search for it,
or I could just have the exact id. But do I need to, it's
A similar query, but similar to passing a record
Id like to do in a flow.
Yep. It's very, it's,
it is exactly the same kind of concept.
Okay. We're passing a record ID in,
we're querying a record by that id.
However, do I need
to get these fields from my query in order to change them?
No. No. All right.
So we've got a couple different,
let's just run this method and see what happens.
'cause I think we've got a bunch of different
ideas about what's going on here.
So let's try it. Let us try it.
So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna modify this so
that it returns my, the,
the meal that I cook's id.
So this is gonna have a return type now of ID
because I don't need the whole thing.
I just need to know the id.
Yep. Oh
wait, oopsie.
There we go. So this is gonna compile just fine.
We're gonna pass it in here. Do all this. Okay.
We'll do blanc. Give her number three.
And then we're gonna return from this a meal id.
So I'm gonna declare a variable of type id,
which is important in this case.
Uh, meal id. All right.
Meal ID is gonna be returned from this method.
And sometime later we're gonna pass
that meal ID into this method.
Next, I'm going to, uh, look at the final result of this
to see kind of what happens in between.
Let me get rid of my debugs that I don't need.
'cause they're gonna be very distracting.
Let's write a useful method for ourselves.
You can return a single S object
just like this from a method.
Uh, I'm just gonna call this query meal by id.
And this is just gonna return the result of a query.
Oh, no, no, no.
So
When I'm, uh, returning this, like in this way
that you can see right here,
I am actually not declaring my data type
because I know that this
brackets right here returns a list.
So I, I actually wouldn't want to say this
unless I knew I were gonna get one back
because I don't know.
I'm gonna get one back. Make a list
and I'm gonna select all my fields too.
'cause I want to take a look at my fields.
This may give away what I was talking about here in a
second, but I'm gonna query the combo field.
And I would also like to take a look at the order up value
to see is this order up or not?
I want to print it out between each step
so we can see kind of what's going on with it.
Uh, did you need a
Comm after the id?
Where at? I do. Thank you.
We have this method that I just wrote called Meal Factory
Query Meal by id, which returns a meal for a given id.
I will put in this.
Now this method returns me that S object
and this debug is gonna debug the values of that S object.
And I'm just doing this so we can see what happens
between running each method.
So let's save all our work and deploy it.
Make sure I didn't make any mistakes.
I didn't make any mistakes.
And now let's run our, uh, process here.
All right, so this is a learning moment.
I made a mistake somewhere.
It says System DML, exception insert failed,
first exception on row zero with id, blah blah, blah.
First error. Invalid field for insert or update.
Cannot specify ID in an insert call.
Well, if we look at our runtime error,
it'll probably tell us where that happened.
If you already have the id,
why would you insert? Why wouldn't you update?
Exactly. I think I made a mistake somewhere.
So we can look at our error message.
Go to line 19 to investigate.
And that is line 19 in this class.
What am I doing this wrong at?
Oh, there we go.
And I also need to correct this. Okay, perfect.
Now we'll just save and deploy again
and we'll go back over here and try to run it.
Cool. Now we can actually get to what we wanted to look at.
That was a genuine mistake.
So my code starts here.
This is my meal as I query initially, uh, it's
order up is true and it's combo is three.
And then after I run the second method,
it's order up is false and the combo is two.
If we go look at the code here, I did not need
to query these fields in order to modify them.
Okay? This is really important.
We don't need to always run a query if we know exactly
what we're gonna change because this gets even simpler.
I already know the id. Do I need to run a query at all?
Is that because when you have access to the id,
you have access to all its fields?
Yes. Well, I, I know what my object looks like.
I, uh, the schema knows what properties
and fields are on my object.
So if I were to define this differently,
I could say I have meal for re firing.
I know what its ID is. I can create a new meal.
I can specify that the ID is equal to meal id.
I do not know what the name of this object is
'cause I didn't query it, but I know what its ID is.
I know that it has this field
and I know that it has this field because I know it's type,
because I have this information.
I don't need to re-query it in this case.
'cause I just want to make these two updates.
And I don't care about the other fields on the record.
If I needed to query the record to read some value to know
that, like, oh, it's BLANCHE'S record, I need
to do something different with it.
Or Oh, it was a number two, A number two always needs
to become a number four
or do some other logic, then I would have to query.
But I really wanna stress this,
this idea is critically important
to the identity of the object.
So, um, question, um, you can have the,
you can have more than one, um, instances
with the same id, right?
And it wouldn't
No, no, no, no.
So I can, I can do, actually, let me answer your question.
You are correct. I could do this twice other meal
with the same id,
but whichever statement I call last, like if I were
to do two different updates to this one
and they were both the same, id,
whichever one I call last is gonna take effect.
So I could say other meal with the same,
ID also do an update to it
and I could say it's combo is now gonna be four.
And then do update.
This is going to, uh, update the same object twice
because it's referred to specifically by this id,
it is always going to go to update that object.
'cause by default update says, what's the idea
of the record I'm updating.
Okay, I found it in the system.
Here is the new values that I have.
It doesn't know about any of the other values
that are not in memory.
It won't overwrite them as blank,
but it won't know about them.
So I'm, I'm saying but, but it won't give you an error.
Nope. This is not gonna gimme an error. Okay.
Let's, let's check it out.
We can look at it actually between each state here.
We're gonna run our method here
in between this
and we'll see that.
Can we get like a locked row error?
So we'll talk about roll lock in just a second.
I, I, I am very intimately familiar with Roblox
and, uh, we will discuss
why we're not gonna get a role lock here.
All right, so let's prove this out first.
The idea is what matters When we do an update,
the idea is what matters.
When we do a query query, I run, I I'm gonna run my process.
Let's run it one more time.
Okay, let's look at each stage of this here.
So I'm created it, it's a combo number three
to start it's order up is true.
Then I update it in my other method, in my refire method.
Inside the refire method, I set it to a two.
And I say order up false.
Here I do it one last time though, I say
change it to a four.
Order up false. This is always the same meal ID
and it's always the same object.
So it said similar, much like merging duplicate records.
You pick which one wins which field. It's not,
It's not really, I guess Yeah,
you could, you could say that.
Yeah. So basically,
because it doesn't know what value this already has,
I'm just overriding it.
So whatever I say is right, is right. Okay.
Um, uh, uh, in the code, if I wanted to make sure
that I don't overwrite the value,
then I could query my record, check
what the existing value is with like an if statement
and then decide if I want to put in a new value or not.
Okay. That would be one way to, uh, avoid this.
But doing DML in Apex, I really wanna point out
whatever record is in memory is
what gets written to the database. Mm-hmm.
Wait, I have a, oh wait. Um, you have already a question.
That's okay. No, I was gonna say, um, when it comes to,
you just said, um, the if statement, um,
we have an instance Wouldn, don't we just, um, um, use
that instance and check with a in statement like
meal W when I just say, um, if meal for referencing
equals this, WW would they still be able
to check without querying? If you know, I mean, so
I, I know what you're saying. So
you're saying if I don't query it, can I check if meal
for a firing equals equals, uh,
or wait name equals, uh, blanche
or for example,
Yeah, It doesn't have this value right now.
It only because I created it this
way, it doesn't know the value.
In this case, I would need to query it
if in the same way I wanted to check if the order up
value was true.
If order up is true
and I don't want to do the refire, or sorry if it's false
and I don't wanna do the refire
or change it, then I can just quit.
Right? But I don't have this value of order up
because I just told it what the record looks like right now.
Right now, if I were to take a look at this in the
computer's mind, the computer only knows the ID
and the type it says this is an object of type meal
that has this id because you told me it has this id.
Unless I go and query the database, I have no idea
about the value on that record.
I have to go and explicitly look for that. Okay.
If I define it up here, then I do know if I were to say
equals true, then I know because I just told it what it is.
But if I don't tell it, it's gotta go be queried.
Okay. Got It. Does that answer your question?
Yeah. Got it. Okay. Cool.
Uh, may, what is your question?
So when we were, um, when you debugged it
and then it overwrote everything to the last statement,
that's only because we said update, right?
Yep. Okay.
And I, I specify what I'm changing. Oh,
Thank You. So if you look
here, like I declared two separate variables,
both with the same id,
but I did not overwrite the order up value.
I did overwrite the combo number though.
So, um, what, what I'm really trying
to get at here is each update is
very, like you're, your querying
and your update are two separate
operations that you need
to think about when you do each one.
If I'm querying, I want to query for exactly the fields
that I need and I want to check them as necessary
before I change their values.
If I am creating a new record
or updating an existing record that I know the idea of,
I want to be sure that if I do need to query it, I know
what I'm querying for and I know why I'm querying for it.
Otherwise, I'll just do the updates that I need to do.
But IDs are very, very valuable
because they can be used for
updating a record without querying it.
They can be used to query a specific record Exactly.
Which can be very, very useful because
otherwise we are kind of stumbling around being like,
I'm looking for a record, it's this tall, uh,
it's this color and it's this shape that,
that doesn't tell me anything.
Uh, I, I would much rather know exactly the records
specific name, which is the id.
So what I really am trying
to drive home in this lesson is when we're using queries
and when we're using DML statements, the ID
is very, very important.
You can, um, let's talk about roll lock.
Actually before we wrap up.
So Jason had said something about,
because we're doing an update here and an update here,
and they're both on the same id,
wouldn't you get a roll lock?
A roll lock happens when, uh, our code is saying,
I would like to go update this record, pull it out,
pull it off the shelf for me,
and the computer pulls it off the shelf
and it then writes something in it and puts it back.
Let's say somebody else comes along while that computer has
that book off the shelf or that record off the shelf,
and it says, I would like to update that one.
I know it's right there. I know its id, I know its name.
I'm gonna go pull it off the shelf,
but it's not on the shelf.
That's because another record is writing to it right now.
It locks the record while this process is writing it.
Let's say that that's this process right here.
Our record is gonna get locked right here while it's
updating so that nobody else can interrupt my update.
Salesforce is very greedy.
It doesn't want more than one process modifying a record at
the same time, however, um,
because code runs from top to bottom in order,
the record's gonna be locked while this is happening on line
42, it releases the lock.
As soon as it's done updating, then it goes
to whatever code is next.
So as soon as this statement is done, the lock is released.
Generally speaking, roughly speaking, um,
so when we get down to this one right here,
if I'm modifying the same record, my lock is released here
and it locks again here.
The only way you can run into a record lock is if I had, uh,
two Apex classes running at the same time
and they were both trying to update the same record.
I cannot easily demonstrate this to you
because Salesforce is really well designed compared
to a lot of databases.
They have done a great job of, uh, well,
most modern databases do a good job of this,
of making the read write consistency very good.
What I mean by read write consistency is
if I call update right here, I I'm very positive
that my update will make it in when it's supposed to.
It, it doesn't have a lot of race conditions.
So whoever gets there first will get
to write their changes and move on.
Um, So if you had,
if the Apex class was running and someone mm-hmm.
In the UI actually opened that exact same record mm-hmm.
They can't do anything until your code finishes,
but they could override your code by making a UI change?
They sure could. And then it would be down to, uh,
whose code down to like the microsecond saves first.
Okay, well I, and if they are close enough,
you'll get a roll lock.
Yeah. Okay. I mean,
I had gotten them before, that's why I was curious.
Yep. You definitely can do it.
Um, and, and the longer you are holding a record in its
update updating state
or inserting state, like if you have a lot of automation on
that record, the more likely it is you get a row lock
because it cannot release that lock until all the triggers
and automation have run. Okay.
It does not release the lock.
I've got a lock, I've got a rule lock while
doing one pollution.
Many times actually, for example, if say your processes
have multiple traits mm-hmm.
While maybe you're updating, you know, like for example,
you're updating an opportunity Yep.
That, um, like maybe you're update updating,
say five opportunities that is referencing one contact.
So in that situation, maybe
those five are being updated at the same time.
Mm-hmm. And then each of them meet the contact id.
So it's kind of close a rule lock, um, error if
that situation happens.
But it's still a single one. It's still one process.
So I just thought I should, you know,
You, you can cause that to happen.
Yes, that can happen depending on how the code is written.
If, uh, if you're running, uh,
more than 200 records through a trigger
and they are all parented to the same parent record
and they all update the parent record the way
that triggers happen, um,
especially if there's anything asynchronous.
I, I don't know the specifics of your scenario,
but there are a lot of things that can create Rolex
if you are running at a higher scale.
Just because if any of those children
or any of those, uh, records tries to go
and update that same record, they could run into a rollout
and it's much more likely when they're all, uh,
referencing up to the same one
and all trying to make the same change to it.
I don't know the specifics of your scenario,
but like generally speaking, well-written code
that is not using master detail,
you're not gonna run into Roblox
if you have a lot of automations.
It's much more likely though, like heavy automation
means your record is locked for longer.
But in general, Salesforce does a great job
of preventing the role lock in the background.
When you call this update statement, it will try 10 times
to complete this update if it encounters a row lock
before it throws the exception.
So it'll try once fail silently.
It'll try again, fail silently again, fail silently up
to 10 times before it throws the, uh, unable to lock,
uh, row error.
So is there any best practices for that?
So like if you have an integration
where an external user is updating a record
and you have automations already
behind the scenes to prevent that.
So it's, uh, with integrations
it gets a little more complicated.
So like, let's say I have, uh, users
that are updating a record
and I have an external service
that might update the same record, um,
or the same list, right?
Community cloud for example. Yes. If I, okay,
So let's say that that's the case there.
There are, if you truly are going
to run into like a race condition, what you can do is
a common integration pattern would be like a staging table.
A staging table would be, there are a number of updates
that get queued by external systems mm-hmm.
That are loaded in asynchronously at a
and they will like basically attempt to constantly
integrate their changes.
But like, whenever you have like a user
and a system both trying to commit changes
to the same record, there's never an easy, uh,
there's never one answer for that kind of problem.
Okay? You always have to look at who should
have the authority to have the final state of this record.
And a lot of the, the questions around that
are business related questions.
Like, you know, who should have the final say
or how do I know when this is done updating?
A lot of times there are records
that just are updating for a long time.
Quotes, uh, if you're working on quotes, a lot of times
you're not gonna update the same quote.
You're gonna clone the quote, issue a new quote
with changes, you know,
and then maybe when that one issues, it'll go take it
to an external system to validate
and that external system will say, this quote's not valid.
So you don't have this window available.
And then it will clone that quote, insert the new one
with a to-do and the do will say, replace this window.
I generated a new quote for you.
And it will go back and forth in that way purely
to avoid the road lock problem.
There are all sorts of ways to do this,
and it just depends on your scale, your data model,
and uh, I guess the overall opinionation
of the business towards eventual consistency.
When is my record settled? When is my record synced up?
It's a really hard question, uh, to say like
what the ultimate answer is,
but yes, that is a very common way you get ro uh, Rolex
and I literally worked, uh,
encountered that problem today at work.
Um, external system causing Roblox
updating records one at a time, other
people updating those same records.
Okay. Very difficult problem, but uh, it can be solved.
Yeah, you just gotta find the right pattern.
Record trigger flows, do it too.
Oh yeah. Really bad. Really bad.
You shouldn't use record trigger flows anyway, uh,
last thing I will say I wanted to point out,
remember this and this.
Mm-hmm. Let's talk about this real quick.
Can do it together. So
this is kind of bad right now for a couple reasons.
I'm doing 2D ML operations. Mm-hmm.
And remember, queries
and d ml are the most time consuming
slow operations you can do in your code.
So it's gotta go call the database.
It's gotta get the data back either way, right?
It's gonna go pull a whole bunch
of data back if it's a query
or it's going to go submit some data
and give you back a yes or no.
I did it right. Um, because that takes so much time.
Wanna reduce the trips we make to the database
whenever possible for a singular S object type.
I will even give you more specific advice.
You should group those together.
So what I mean by that is if we're gonna put two sides in
for our orders, it doesn't
matter if the sides are different.
They're the same type because they're the same type.
It is often advisable to just do something like this
where you make a list of sides,
create them both, and by create them, I know
that create in flows means something very specific.
It means insert, I'm not gonna use that terminology.
Insert means insert, create means I'm just gonna
instantiate my variable.
So sides is my list.
I'm gonna add my created side to my list of sides,
sides also here.
And then I will just do one update operation.
Or sorry, this is an insert.
This is much, much, much more efficient.
This is actually twice as efficient.
If I had to argue, uh,
Salesforce does not optimize your code.
It's not gonna say like, oh, I can see
that you're doing an update here and here
and they're not gonna interfere with each other.
The compiler's not that smart.
You have to be smart in this case to say, I only need
to make one trip to the database
and I'm gonna do it like this.
Why would I also tell you then if we can, any questions on
that point, like why we're doing this all at once
before I move to this last
topic. This is
You think governor rules, That's another good one.
Yes. That's where we're going next.
The other reason you want to do this
is I can only call this a hundred times.
I only am allowed to do, uh, 150. Or wait, hold on.
Am I wrong? Someone correct me if I'm wrong. 150,
I think it's one 50.
Is it 150? I think it's 150. 150 DML statements.
I can only update call, update or insert nope.
Or delete 150 times period. I can't do it anymore. So
It should be in your debug if fact check
Yeah, is is always there. I see you
Are on point. You are on point,
man. Yep. One 50. Yep,
There you go. Yeah,
I always see that number. So I'm like, okay, one 50.
There you go. You're gonna, this man's gonna
pass PD one guys.
This man's gonna pass PD one.
All right, so this, I can only do this 150 times.
That means every single time I call this is a big deal.
I hope you're never writing code
where you make 150 statements.
I believe me, I, I sleep better at night thinking
that people don't do this, but I've seen different.
So I know that people do.
Um, the other reason we don't do this is
'cause it's a miserable user experience.
If you have to save a record
and it's gonna do like 50 DML statements,
your users are not going to be very happy.
They're gonna be like, why is this taking so long to save?
Or, uh, it feels like when I run this batch job,
it's taking an hour.
This is where you get into those statements
or where you get into those problems is using too
many DML statements.
'cause these are extremely time consuming,
like real world time, compute time, time consuming.
So doing this whenever you can is very useful.
However, I would caution you against doing this
without a really good understanding and reason to do it.
You can make, uh, such a list as this
and start adding everything to it.
But this can actually hurt your performance in certain
scenarios, uh, especially if the list is unordered.
So I'll caution you against just using one mega list
of S objects, um,
because that can make your code harder to read
and it can make you appreciate less, uh, like the order
of execution for each individual thing.
It's also can be very un performant if your records are not
in the right order within that list.
So Bao, yes, you can do that.
I would advise you to not do it.
That's a personal piece of advice.
You may get performance gains out of it in some scenarios,
but it can also make your code harder to read
and harder to debug.
So just, you know, use with caution.
I trust you to use it though
'cause you seem like a smart guy.
The last thing I'll mention is this.
This is what my preferred way
to do DMLI will almost always prefer to do this.
Uh, if it were my choice, not only does it look less goofy
to me, which is a huge value in my book,
obviously it returns something to you.
If you look at my screen right here,
when I'm doing this DML,
I get something called a database save result.
That is an object actually.
And you don't have any equivalent for this in flow as far
as I know yet.
They might add it.
This is a valid assignment of a list
of database save results.
The database class has a data structure
or an object called a save result.
These save results are things
that can tell you what happened when you
tried to insert a record.
Cool.
These save results,
I can look at several things on that are very important.
I can get, did my operations succeed or fail?
I can get the ID of the record if I just inserted it.
I can get the errors, all of them
that happened when I tried to insert my record.
These are really, really useful things if you're trying
to surface errors to your users.
Um, we can also do this,
you might say like true or false.
Well, we can turn off acidic operator
or sorry, we can make our database operations.
Um, not all or nothing.
So this has an additional boole on it.
We can add called all or nothing.
If I turn this to false, that means that some of my records
can fail and some of my records can succeed
to insert into my database.
So let's say I broke a validation rule
or I, uh, missed a required field
and that was only on two of my records.
Out of a hundred, this false all
or nothing false means that I can insert 98 records
and fail to insert two.
And I don't throw an exception action.
This is potentially, uh, very, very useful.
However, I would caution you again,
just like I was telling Bayo, this is the, the,
the Uncle Ben principle of
with great power comes great responsibility.
If you're gonna do all
or nothing false, I hope you're handling
the ones that are false.
'cause your code's not gonna throw an exemption.
You need to log those errors
or figure out why it is okay for you to fail to insert them.
In most cases, uh, databases are designed, uh,
to be, to be all or nothing.
So it's a rollback. Yes,
it will roll your database back
and say everything that just happened didn't happen.
Yeah, okay.
This is the way a lot of databases are designed
and this is generally thought to be a very good practice.
However, you do have the option in
Salesforce to turn it off.
I just want to caution you, if you choose to do that,
you may wanna look at your save results
and figure out which one's failed
and figure out what to do about that.
This is very useful for, again, integrations
with another system because you don't always know what's
happening in that other system or coming back from that API,
but you do want to get as many into your system
as possible for some reason, right?
So you do need to maybe collect the ones that didn't work
and send something back
or collect the ones that didn't work.
Make an error log.
These are just tools
and there are a lot of them that you can use
around inserting records.
Um, I think this covers the major things that I wanted
to cover about DML operations.
When you are working with the next homework assignment
where it's asking you to do queries
and DML together, um,
you're gonna run into some, some definitely some
of the harder problems that we have encountered
yet they're gonna ask you to apply everything we learned
so far, looping, uh, maps, queries,
DML operations,
and it's gonna ask you to kind
of think deeply about the way that these combine.
So, uh, I look forward
to seeing some questions in Slack about that.
I look forward to seeing some toil
and seeing some interesting, uh, responses.
And I believe we do have our rest week after this homework.
So, um, yeah,
there's a lot to learn on this topic.
I could go on for another three hours about all the nuances
of, uh, inserting records into Salesforce
and querying them back out.
But these are the very basic
things I think you need to know.
And then we learned some extra stuff too
about metadata today.
Uh, I will be right back in five minutes,
but to take questions,
but I, uh, do have to get going at around
like nine 40 'cause I have to get up early tomorrow to fly,
fly to California for TDX.
So, uh, give me like two minutes
and if anybody has any questions,
I'll be right back to answer them.
Have fun at TDX. Do you know about the cigar bar thing?
Hold on. We are gonna have to discuss that in a moment.
I'll tell you about it.
Hey, I have a question for all of us while we wait,
if anybody wants to chat.
Yeah, because I have a question too.
I, I know the answer, but I'm curious. Yes, let's chat.
Uh, so this happened to me today where I was doing at,
at work, not in homework, where I was needing
to prevent an update when I first did not
check to see if the value supplied by a different system,
uh, was in a restricted pick list.
And I mean, I, I found some references.
There's a actually a pick list object, but,
and you don't even need to run a query to get at it,
but, uh, it's caused, it caused me big problems
until I figured out how to do it.
I was just wondering if I, it just seems like, uh,
something really important to know.
So I, and I don't have the answer.
I I know what I did for a workaround
Question. You trying to bypass a
restricted pick list,
Right? You, you,
you have data coming in from a
variety of places, right?
Particular org, some
of it comes in from a different wealth management platform,
and you, you have make sure
that if you're gonna do an update, you're not trying
to update a restricted P list
with the value that's not in it.
I hate say it. What I normally do is I remove the
restricted P list so I can fix it later.
Yeah. Are you talking from a data,
um, data import point of view
or like a coding to kind of true validation?
Yeah. Uh, are you trying to true validation rule
or like an error if anyone wants to like maybe update?
Mm-hmm. I think I'm just trying to understand like
the question, like are you trying to like understand a way
to handle it in case of next time or?
Well, so I'll give you the example.
Um, we're getting updates on
a couple hundred thousand records twice a day.
And these are all some sort of a financial account,
like an IRA or inherited IRA or whatever.
And we're noticing that the more records that come in, uh,
people will, uh, put a space in front
of IRA, uh, they'll put
IIRA if it's an inherited IRA
and all these things become things
that are not in our restricted pick list.
But you don't know it.
Are you exposing these fields on a website
or a community site or something?
Uh, it's, uh, An integration stuff. I think
It's an integration, yeah.
We're running with a MuleSoft.
Um, okay. Because I, I know my integrations,
I do a dynamic pick list,
but I only show the fields
that I have in Salesforce to them.
Mm-hmm.
I'm just wondering, uh, when you're,
and now that Chase is back, I'm really curious about
do you make your cold, vulnerable, um, and not flexible?
Or do you make it, you know, a little bit more boil,
not boilerplate, but resistant to errors like that?
I think it's best you, like you
use the restricted quick list,
but like you say, you are using newsoft, I'm not familiar
with newsoft, but you could write a reject
to kind of detect the pattern and then if it has
or thing for that is the upkeep, the upkeep
for maintaining that, you know, database for, okay,
maybe if it contains IR rss, if the value contains IS
topic to IRS,
but that's there, there could be an error in that also
because what's the, um,
what if the value isn't,
what if the intended value isn't actually IS
and it just complain maybe Iris or something?
Yeah. Would you chalk it up into IRS also?
So like, um,
Yeah, I'm missed This.
Or like if you could through error
and send it back to them, warn them about the list
of records that I didn't committing to do this
so they can all Right.
Right. There's a lot of different ways to do it.
What, what we're concerned about is, so Chase,
I'm, I'm asking, uh, like best practice question.
We're doing these, these inserts or inserts or updates
and, uh, this happened to me at where, at my day job today,
where another outside data aggregator source,
so to speak, was added to the inflow of data.
Okay. And what we have is a restricted pick list
started having fault.
So the question is I have is do I design my apex
to present, prevent that in one place,
or handle that exception in one place?
Or do I accept the burden of going to this
seemingly infinite number of different sources
where it could come from
and stopping it at each of those places?
Mm-hmm. So I, I didn't know how you did that in here
where you checked to see without having to do another DML.
So you're saying, uh, you are
basically consuming data from a bunch of different sources
and you want your data to be in, uh, a specific format?
Yep. Mm-hmm. Yeah. Okay.
Uh, so are they pushing the data to you?
Yeah. Effectively, uh, a MuleSoft app is, right? Yeah.
Okay. So
and all of a sudden they connected a new source of data
and you're just consuming it
and it doesn't have this value that it's supposed to have.
Right? So this,
there's a couple angles you can approach this from.
Uh, if you're saying like, I have no control, uh,
and the business is making decisions without talking
to engineering, and engineering is making choices without
talking to the business,
or rather, work is not being like well communicated
and orchestrated, which is the
case of a lot of organizations.
Yeah. Um, if we're,
we're talking about that scenario, right?
We have no, that's correct. Way to communicate better, okay?
Mm-hmm. If that's the case, um, you have
to make a couple decisions, um, about
what your engineering teams are gonna do about this.
So one of those things is, uh,
who handles the errors and what happens
and is there an SLA
around getting this data into the system?
Because there's a couple things you can say.
You can say, I wanna make my code, uh, be able
to recover from these types of things and coalesce values.
Mm-hmm. Or highlight the records that have invalid values,
but still allow them into my system
and flag them in some way.
That's one way you can go, right?
Just let the dirty data in and clean it up later.
The other way you can go is, I expect this code,
this API this database table to work in a specific way.
And if it does not work in that way, I want
to know about it immediately.
In which case, you don't make your code flexible,
you don't let the dirty data in,
and you want every piece of code in your system to be
filing logs, throwing exceptions,
and panicking, throwing alarms so that you can see
that problem and get engineering attention on
it to fix that problem. Mm-hmm.
Yeah. I understand.
It's a two extremes. And the,
the reality generally lands somewhere in the middle
where it's like, you know, okay, well
how critical is this really?
Okay. It's not that important.
Alright, we'll let you have that bad data, uh,
and put it into our system.
Mm-hmm. Uh, for me, what, what I'm hearing here, if I,
if I heard this problem, I would really want to get
to the root of who's publishing the data
and kinda like, can we talk to them
before they start publishing data?
Right? But like, the reality is I know that
that's not how it happens, right?
No. So I, I guess for me, my bias is towards
code should fail loudly and code should fail proudly
and let you know that something is not right, so
that you can go and fix that so that you can say, oh, such
and such integration was at this time
was pushing these records in from this person.
And they are, this is the problem right here, this line,
it's throwing a validation error.
Uh, this pick list value doesn't exist. Yeah.
And if we get that error, then we can say,
okay guys, we have two options.
Let's go tell 'em to stop. Which is not an option, right?
Maybe or, uh, if we're not a human being we can talk to
and make decisions with, we have to say,
what should this value coalesce to?
Right. Should we coalesce this value
into another existing value?
And then in your code, you just say in your integration
code, you just be like, okay,
and if, uh, JSON has this value, uh,
make it be this value.
Sure. And then that's th you know, then you just had
to introduce three lines of code to fix that problem.
And you noted that exists when you're reading
through your integration code.
Yeah. Yeah. Um, I, and sometimes that's just all
I have. I just wondering. Yeah.
I I wanna let others
to be able to ask questions.
I appreciate everybody's comment on it.
And yours Chase as well?
No, it's, I mean it's a, it's a real problem
and uh, always with these technical things is the question
is, can I have a human conversation
before I have to do something at the code level, right.
Or do I gotta make it work?
I was just wondering if there's an apex way
to know the contents of a pick list be to prevent it.
There is actually, uh, you can use,
So is that like a contains,
So you will end up with a contained statement,
but you have to get the pick list values
to get the pick list values.
You can have to know the type
of object you are dealing with.
Yeah. Uh, you would say account you, uh,
or no, it would be schema account,
which is an object in your system
that gets created automatically.
'cause you have an account get, uh, get s object type.
Then once you've got the S object type,
you describe the S object.
When we've described the S object, you can get the fields.
Yeah. Or Wait, it's just fields I believe actually
you get the, you fields, fields returns a map.
You get the name of the field,
which we could call this industry in this example.
And then you would call get, describe again on that field,
which is gonna give you a describe S object field result.
Then you can get, you can get into that.
Right. Okay. So you just answered my question.
None of that right there get, that's not a,
that's not a D ml, that's not a query.
No, it doesn't count towards
Your query. This is intro respecting on your
schema.
This is intro inspecting on your schema. Yeah.
Is not querying. You get this for free.
So you just know what the account object has.
I will tell you though, this isn't a query,
but it costs performance to go
and introspect onto your S object model.
If your account has like a thousand fields when you call
fields, it is going to load up all those fields.
Sure. Um, and until recently, you did not have a way
to stop it from loading up all those fields.
And you call this, now you can get describe, uh,
until it to defer loading up all the fields used to though.
We just grab 'em all. So if you had like, gotcha a a ton
of fields, it'd be a, you know,
All right, now this is, yeah.
If I'm backed into it, this is what I'll do.
But this answers the question hypothetically.
You can do that.
Yes. Hypothetically, you can check
for the pick list values, see which one you,
if it fits into the pick list values
and throw an error if it doesn't, that allows you
to throw really strongly typed errors.
Uh, and if you don't have that opportunity, you have that,
uh, restricted pick list that will just throw the exception
and hopefully you will allow that exception
to bubble up in a way
that people can address it and make a patch.
Yeah. Very good. Thanks so much.
I wanna let others ask questions. Yeah,
Sure. What other questions
do we have about DML or inquiries
When you were doing the DML on two different objects?
Is it possible to do just 1D ML for both objects?
I mean, I've never seen it.
I was just curious if you could do it.
Yes, you can. You cannot relate them in the same call
unless they have, uh, an external ID
or a shallow reference to associate them.
There is an article on that,
and Warren did a video on it actually, uh,
on his YouTube channel on how to, uh,
update two related objects in one call,
which is the more common way, in my opinion.
You're not really saving
that much if you are doing that.
There are certain use cases where that is crazy useful, uh,
bulk scenarios when you're, uh, working against the rest.
API is one of them, but in Apex just do two statements.
Okay. So like on the one you did today, the sides
and the burger, you would leave 'em separate, not
unless you had mass so many habits of records. I would,
I would. There are
a couple other opinions about that, uh, published,
you know, in like, uh, Dana Apple Man's book.
I think he covers that scenario.
But, uh, my opinion, keep your code readable if you,
and there's a lot of, uh, sharp edges
and, uh, as we call them in the foot guns,
you can introduce into your code
where you can really hurt
yourself by doing that in the long run.
Okay. Like, let's say for example, I wanted to insert, uh, a
and I wanted to insert B
and I combine them into one statement.
If I then also introduce some third object,
now I'm inserting three objects all in one line.
And that means I cannot split out error handling
behavior from each of those three.
If I choose to want to do that, I have
to do some more complex stuff.
I have to sort through the save results, check the, the type
of the object that was inserted,
and it gets very, you know,
laborious when I could just call insert three times on three
separate lists to me. Okay.
Yeah. So if it, so if it's different objects,
different inserts, and if it's the same object,
but you need the record, ID do an insert,
then get the record Id basically,
Basically, yeah.
Okay. You can always get the record IDs
for if you combine them or not,
but I would just say in terms of code readability,
there's no reason to do,
it's called mixed DML where you are.
Mm-hmm. Mixing S object type A and S object type B,
because also if you do ab A b, AB B, AB B
and you do that more than 10 times, it will throw an error
that says you cannot, uh, do, you have
to basically sort the list first before you do it.
So you can get into, really, you can just,
you just open yourself up to a bunch of problems
that you probably don't need to do.
'cause you shouldn't be running up against
150 queries anyway.
I would love to see a scenario where someone, uh,
legitimately doing a hundred inserts.
I I have not seen it yet where it was necessary.
Not even once
In a day. I do, but not at once.
Right. Yeah. Not in one, not in the context
of one synchronous apex thread.
Yeah.
How do you log, um, the errors in the platform?
I know about the ace, uh, apex exception, like emails
that send you when things break,
but is there a way to not get the email,
but also then receive the logs internally?
Uh, I work with medical data and
whenever there's like an error, you're not allowed
to send like a transaction or an email.
So I've then and effectively had
to just cut off the logging.
So when things break, you're kind of blind, um,
because it's a breach of, um,
patient medical data if you do allow it.
So is there a way to actually just,
other than writing like a single little, Hey,
save this here, or alert that, um, a way to do that.
Yes. Uh, because you're working with HIPAA data, correct?
Mm-hmm. Yeah. I, I,
I would not point you towards writing your own logger.
I would use the, this is like the number one logging,
like a package you can get.
It's open source. Uh, the people that work on it,
I have a lot of respect for,
and a lot of other people in the industry do as well.
Nebula Logger, uh, is a little complicated, which is why
I can't recommend it for everyone.
But this is like your, your,
I don't have logging in my org and I need it.
This is your spot to, um,
start, basically.
Yeah. You do have to learn kind of like the data model
and the opinionation of it,
but this allows you to log things from flows.
It allows you to log things from Apex.
It stores a ton of data
and it's relatively, uh, performance.
If you're not like a performance, uh, hungry org
and you don't have like time requirements,
I would probably always point to this as the place to start
with logging in Apex because it's a known gap.
Um mm-hmm. If you're working with HIPAA data,
the reason I would rec, uh, recommend this one is
that I know that there are finance
and healthcare organizations using this.
I need to see what tools they have for masking data though,
because yeah,
If it's saving like internally without going out
and it stays behind the login,
that's like the easy way to determine that.
That's just safe. So as long as it's not like sending it
outside of the database, then you're good.
So if I can log in, it stays the logs Salesforce good to go.
That's awesome. Thank you. This
Saves in Salesforce. Yeah.
This is gonna solve your problem.
Um, I, there's a lot of customization you can do,
but I would really recommend to keep it simple.
Yeah. Um,
and if you read through this right here, it's a lot to read
through, but if you become like
the logging guy at your company, uh, that is very,
very powerful because then people will come
to you with all sorts of problems.
You solve people's problems. Oh, I love Zachary.
He's the logger guy. He's gonna help know how
to fix my problem because he's got the logs.
He knows how the log works.
Before long you get a, you know,
you get pushed up, you get promoted.
So this is, uh, a lot
of information on this NEA logger page,
but, um, I designed my company's custom logger,
like 50% inspiration from this.
Mm-hmm. We just could not tolerate the performance
and the data model complexity.
Plus we kind of already had like a rough logger, so I had
to kind of work around that constraint.
Um, but if you have nothing, go check this out,
man. Go check this out, please.
Cool. Yeah, that's great. Thank you so much.
Yeah, that's a big deal. Yeah.
Like understated, right? Yeah,
It's very, I mean, logging is like a foundation of, uh,
programming Yeah.
Alone, like cloud, uh, programming.
So it's very, very important.
Uh, and I hope this, uh,
at least gets you thinking in the right direction,
if not is the right answer for you.
Yeah. At the moment, I have to write, like, send a,
when the fault hits, it'll send an email
and be like, ah, this sort of flow broke.
And don't say how just around this, you know,
so that it's safe.
Um, but I did mention quickly, if you don't have anything
to do after the event,
whenever you're at a Salesforce convention, always go
to the cigar bar and it's called the Cigar Bar and Grill.
There's like a bunch of them,
but that, that combination of names,
that's where you'll find why
Is it always around there
Waits. What am I gonna find there?
Sorry. That's like, uh, a lot of, um,
like really old industry Salesforce folks go there
after party, so you'll find like the speakers
and the golden hoodies and and such.
So it's a really good way to get in
and just meet a lot of good, good people.
Fantastic. Thank you for that. I had no idea.
I'm, I, I have not gone to, uh,
like I've gone to one world tour in Atlanta,
but I, I've been doing this for five years.
Everyone's like, chase, why don't you go to any events?
Why don't you go to any events? And I'm like, oh,
I'm not ready yet, you know?
But now I feel like I'm ready.
I applied to speak, uh, at some events this later,
this later this year, and I got, uh, accepted
to two of them.
So that's exciting. I got another one today
that I think I'm going to go to, so that's pretty cool.
I'll keep it cigar bar. I will, I'll keep that one in my
And grill long Term memory, cigar bar
and grill in my long term memory.
Yeah. That'll, that'll get you there. Yep.
And grill. I love grill. I love grill. Right.
Well have fun and down. Yeah.
Thank you. Yeah. Can I ask
you one other quick question?
Yep. I got, uh, about four more minutes.
Okay. So I'm, I'm a nonprofit person.
I always open in nonprofit world. Mm-hmm.
There's a lot of like community clouds.
Their test classes are terrible.
Yes, they are. Is it okay, I mean, is it normal
or is it okay to update their test classes
so you get a better co I'm very
particular about my code coverage.
It's gotta be 90 or better, or don't even put it in my org.
Hmm. So the risk with updating the test classes,
if you are a journeyman developer
and you're looking at like existing terrible test classes,
let's call it, or hard to read is you mm-hmm.
If you are updating them
and they're genuinely asserting valid functionality
and you change that assertion either on purpose
or on accident, you may have lost the ability
to verify that the original code is doing some weird
particular thing that it's supposed to be doing.
Okay. So then why does Salesforce put something in your
org that has a 76% code coverage? Hmm.
Oh, you're talking about the nonprofit? Yes,
I am that Specifically.
That is a great question.
Uh, so then the NPSP,
that's what you're talking about, correct?
Yep. Yep. NPSP is famously like that.
And, uh, NPSP originally comes from
outside of Salesforce. Right.
Came from the org.org world.
Yeah. So basically they
saw the open source community working on that,
and they said, Hey, that's really nice.
How would you like us to put our stamp of approval on that?
And then whatever the code quality was at the time is the
way the code quality was when they put
their stamp of approval on it.
You can also look at this from steel brick, steel brick, uh,
what is it now, 15 years ago, 10 years ago?
Mm-hmm. Made, uh, the, the CPQ package,
you'll not ever see steel brick anywhere except in the API
names SBQQ is steel brick, uh, quote,
uh, I don't remember what the other queue is,
but it's their, it's their CPQ engine
and Salesforce said, Hey, we really like that.
Could we buy it off of you?
And it was such a hot seller,
it didn't really matter how good the code was.
There are times where just getting it done
and getting the KPIs is way more important than, uh,
you know, code coverage.
And that was one of those times because
Even though Community Cloud has terrible code coverage
just for the forgot password,
it's got like a 77 controller code is pretty bad.
Yep. So the other thing is that I, I think some
of the people that wrote that stuff don't have
as much knowledge, and this is just speculation.
They're either in too big of a hurry
or don't have enough knowledge to fully test like the full
edges of the code, and they kind of expect you
to go in there and like beef it up.
Um, okay. I have no idea to be honest, uh, how some
of these, like Salesforce stamp
of approval packages got to the way they are.
I, I used to get really upset about the way the CCP Q was
and how fragile CCP Q'S architecture was like once you
started that to do anything really
complicated her at scale with it.
But, you know, it's just one of those things I,
I really don't know what to say about N-P-S-P-I,
I've encountered the same thing with NPSP,
where it's kinda like, Hey Chase, why is it like this?
And it's like, I don't, I I don't shoot, it's a nonprofit.
They're different. Don't shoot the messenger.
I'm just here to make it work. Okay.
Like, I'm not here to, you know, I I I'm here to help.
So I, I hate that for you.
Uh, I think that if you're talking specifically about going
updating that stuff and it's bring your overall average
coverage down, I would just carefully update that stuff.
Yeah. I mean, I'm, I'm, I'm real careful, like I'm,
I'm still at like 91
or 92% code coverage even with what they have,
but it really makes it hard for me
to write code test classes.
And I'm terrible at test classes.
I mean, it takes me forever to write a fricking test classes
to get good code coverage.
Yeah. Uh, some of that is, uh,
we'll talk about this when we talk about test classes.
There is a way to write your code so that it's easy to test.
Okay. And some of it we have already been pushing you all
towards, like, you see all my code is very
linear and straight aligned.
Mm-hmm. And uh, when I were talking about earlier on in the
lesson about checking for not null
and then doing something instead of checking
for is null, go home and quit.
Real winners quit. Um, the reason I say real winners quit is
because it's easier to test your code sometimes,
because I don't have to remember.
And, and, and, and, and, we'll, we'll see it later.
I mean, I'll be honest, I cheat.
I use the AI and then I modify it to work to make,
to make it work the way I really need it to work.
But I get them to use Do my start. Sorry.
Yeah. I mean, you can, you'll, if you've done it
rot enough test classes, it starts to not even be
stage my data, call my method, assert my result.
Mm-hmm. Like, it, it gets faster
even manually once you've Okay.
Got a good grasp on it. That's a good question.
I I, I just be careful with that.
I don't want to be responsible for
telling you I haven't touched it yet.
Get in there and clean it up. But,
Uh, it drives me nuts At some, I mean, I don't know
what level of agency you have,
but if you have the agency to get in there
and clean it up, get in there
and clean it up, just know the risk that you're accepting
when you go in there and clean it up.
'cause you might change the course assertions just
on accident, right?
Yeah. Okay.
I've I've done that in the last, uh, year, even once.
So it's, it's not impossible.
It's not like you become immune to these things.
It's part of, it's part of cleaning up.
Yeah. So, so we just did a, a new org implementation.
So now we're in the part of documenting the whole org
because we did it in such a hurry.
So now it's like everything's on pause
and org has to be documented and on.
Now I'm getting to the code coverage. It's like, okay.
Yeah. But okay. Just careful
You, it, like I I've said a couple times, uh, today,
like great power, great responsibility, uncle Ben principle.
All right, folks, I do have to get going.
Thank you for your questions.
Thank you all for your well wishes.
I will, uh, give a little report on it once
I'm there when I get back.
Yep. Enjoy your trip. Thank
You. Thank you. Take care everybody.
Bye.